Naina (Deepika Padukone) is a shy and nerdy medical student. She studies constantly and always tops her classes, however she feels like outcast. An encounter with an old classmate, Aditi (Kalki Koechlin), makes her realise that she wants more from life than high marks. She makes an impulsive decision to follow Aditi on a commercial hiking trip into the Himalayas, up to Manali. During the hike, she renews her friendship with another former classmate, Kabir "Bunny" Thapar (Ranbir Kapoor). Bunny is a handsome charmer whose dream is to wander and discover the world. He does not plan to marry or settle down.
In the course of the mountain trek, Bunny and Naina draw closer to each other. Bunny teaches Naina to laugh, to play, and to love. At the end of the trip, she is close to telling Bunny how she feels, but is interrupted by their friend Avi (Aditya Roy Kapur). He accidentally finds a letter accepting Bunny to graduate school in journalism, at Northwestern University. Bunny explains that the trip is his last fling before he leaves. He will be sad to leave his friends, but happy to start a career that will lead to the travels of which he dreams. Naina realises that love and marriage has no part in Bunny's plans and remains silent about her feelings but is happy for Bunny as he is following his passion.
Eight years pass. Naina finishes medical school and works in a clinic. Bunny works as a television cameraman for travel shows and roams the world, as he had planned. They meet again in Udaipur, for Aditi's lavish wedding to Taran (Kunaal Roy Kapur), an awkward but adoring engineer.Bunny and Avi also renew their friendship.
Naina and Bunny are strongly attracted to each other again. Both resist love – Bunny because he does not want to give up a dream job he has been offered (as a travel show host), Naina because she fears that Bunny will break her heart again. A day before the wedding, Bunny sees Naina with another man. He is Naina's friend, but Bunny assumes him to be her boyfriend and feels jealous. Bunny and Naina meet, argue, and reveal their feelings by a kiss. Yet neither of them is willing to give up a career to follow the other. It seems that their romance is doomed.
The film ends on New Year's Eve, as Naina sits alone at home. Someone at the door ... Bunny! He has turned down the dream job, though he still plans to travel. Somehow they can make a life with two careers work, he argues. Naina agrees and love wins the day.